Stack dependencies V1 (#96)
spacelift-io/user-documentation: docs/concepts/stack/stack-dependencies.md

# Stack dependencies

Stacks can depend on other stacks. This is useful when you want to run a stack
only after another stacks have finished running. For example, you might want to
deploy a database stack before a stack that uses the database.

!!! info
    Stack dependencies only respect [tracked runs](../run/tracked.md), [proposed runs](../run/proposed.md) and [tasks](../run/task.md) are not considered.

## Defining stack dependencies

Stack dependencies can be defined in the `Dependencies` tab of the stack.

![](../../assets/screenshots/Screenshot_Stack_Dependencies.png)

## How it works

Stack dependencies are directed acyclic graphs ([DAGs](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph)). This means that a stack
can depend on multiple stacks, and a stack can be depended on by multiple stacks but there cannot be loops:

> **make sure you don't have cycles in your dependency graph**. (Don't worry, you'll receive an error if you do.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You will receive an API error if you try to add a stack to a dependency graph that will create a cycle**.
```

I kind of don't like this comment, because essentially user does not have to make sure they don't have cycles. We guard them against that anyways, so they won't be able to create any cycles.

> When a stack receives a push event or triggered manually on the UI, and the stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a stack receives a push event or is triggered manually in the UI, and the stack
```

> is a dependency of other stack(s), those stacks will queue up runs and wait until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a dependency of other stack(s), those stacks will queue up tracked runs and wait until
```

> When a stack receives a push event or triggered manually on the UI, and the stack
> is a dependency of other stack(s), those stacks will queue up runs and wait until
> the current stack has finished running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a tracked run is created in the stack (either triggered manually or by a vcs event), and the stack is a dependency of other stack(s), those stacks will queue up tracked runs and wait until the current stack's tracked run has finished running.
```

If a run fails in the dependency chain, all subsequent runs will be cancelled.

It will be easier to understand in a second.

## Examples

### Scenario 1

```mermaid
graph TD;
    BaseInfra-->Database;
    BaseInfra-->networkColor(Network);
    BaseInfra-->Storage;
    Database-->paymentSvcColor(PaymentService);
    networkColor(Network)-->paymentSvcColor(PaymentService);
    Database-->cartSvcColor(CartService);
    networkColor(Network)-->cartSvcColor(CartService);

    style networkColor fill:#51cbad
    style paymentSvcColor fill:#51abcb
    style cartSvcColor fill:#51abcb
```

> In the above example, if `Network` stack receives a push event, it will start a run

Reviewer: I know it is mentioned at the beginning, but maybe good to reinforce here that it's about tracked runs, not push events. When reading this somebody might thing that this will be behaviour for all push events which is not the case.

be skipped.

_Same level_ stacks (`Database` & `Storage`) are not affected by the failure.

### Scenario 4

```mermaid
graph TD;
    baseInfraColor(BaseInfra)-->databaseColor(Database);
    baseInfraColor(BaseInfra)-->networkColor(Network);
    baseInfraColor(BaseInfra)-->storageColor(Storage);
    databaseColor(Database)-->paymentSvcColor(PaymentService);
    networkColor(Network)-->paymentSvcColor(PaymentService);
    databaseColor(Database)-->cartSvcColor(CartService);
    networkColor(Network)-->cartSvcColor(CartService);

    style baseInfraColor fill:#51cbad
    style networkColor fill:#51cbad
    style paymentSvcColor fill:#51abcb
    style cartSvcColor fill:#51abcb
    style storageColor fill:#51cbad
    style databaseColor fill:#51cbad
```

Let's assume that the infrastructure (`BaseInfra`, `Database`, `Network` and `Storage`) is a monorepo, and a push event affects all 4 stacks.
The situation isn't any different than [Scenario 2](#scenario-2). The dependencies are still respected and the stacks will run in the proper order: `BaseInfra` first, then `Database` & `Network` & `Storage` in parallel, finally `PaymentService` & `CartService` in parallel.

> ### Scenario 5

Reviewer: Could we add some named titles to those scenarios, for example `Scenario 5 - monorepo and tracked run on multiple stacks` ?

Author: I think some scenario's wouldn't have reasonable names such as Scenario 1. I would keep it simple, this is already complicated enough.
